# Contest Selection

Once you understand the extreme basic fundamentals of building a DFS lineup, it is extremely important to understand the different types of DFS contests. There are so many different types of contests open at all times that it becomes very overwhelming for the new player. Even though there are usually hundreds of contests open, they all fall into one of two categories

**CASH CONTESTS:** Cash contests are the most basic type of DFS contest. The premise of cash contests are all the same: if you finish in the top 50% of the field, you win money. This can be a Head-to-Head contest, where you play someone 1v1 and if you win you take the money. It can be a 10 person contest where the top 5 people will cash. You get it. Top 50% of the field will win double their money, minus the 10% tax that FD/DK takes for their rake. In cash contests, you simply want to play the best plays regardless of ownership, because it doesn't matter if you finish in the top 1% or top 50%.

**GPP CONTESTS:** GPP (Guaranteed Prize Pool) contests are a fancy way of saying tournament contests. These are the ones you are likely familiar with, where around the top 25% of the field will cash, and then you will win more and more money as you climb the leaderboard. In these contests, it is **NOT** as simple as picking the best play. You have to watch the ownership of each player very carefully. Ownership simply refers to how much of the field have rostered a certain player. If one of your players goes absolutely crazy, but everyone has him, it doesn't do you much good in tournaments because you don't separate yourself from the field. For this reason, you should take risks on less popular plays that have high ceilings in GPP contests. This way, if your player goes crazy, you will separate yourself greatly from the field.

I wanted to make this entry before tomorrow, as I will be releasing Cash and GPP contests from now on whenever I play DFS with you guys. It is important to know which one to use where, as using a GPP lineup in a cash contest means you're taking unnecessary risk, and using a cash lineup in a GPP contest means you're likely just going to split with the pack at best.
